The Generic Style Rules for Linguistics 
December 2014
Toward discipline-wide text-structure style rules
Scientists have certain style rules for structural aspects of their research papers and
monographs, which in the past were primarily set and enforced by the academic
publishers. But in the 21st century, science is increasingly international and research
papers spread easily even without the publishers’ copy-editors and style watchers.
This does not mean that there is no need for style rules anymore. It makes our research
and our publication activities easier if we agree on a common set of conventions for
frequently recurring structural aspects of our writings, of the sort that are commonly
prescribed in journal style sheets (such conventions are called TEXT-STRUCTURE style
here). But it is inefficient if these rules are set by individual journal editors or publishers,
because scientists usually publish in diverse venues, and being forced to apply different
style rules in different papers is an unnecessary burden on the authors. If linguists could
agree on a set of rules, then linguistics publishers would probably be happy to adopt them
sooner or later, because they would no longer have to worry about enforcing their house
styles.
For the specific case of formatting rules for bibliographical references, this has already
happened: In 2007, a number of linguistics journal editors agreed on a “Unified Style
Sheet for Linguistics”, 1 and these rules for bibliographical reference style have been
widely adopted, not just for journals, but also for linguistics books.
Another aspect of form style has been widely adopted: The Leipzig Glossing Rules for
interlinear morpheme-by-morpheme glosses.2 Quite a few journals and publishers now
recommend or prescribe their use, and many authors refer to them. The Leipzig Glossing
Rules are now typically taught in linguistics classes, and more and more linguists find it
normal that knowing them is part of their disciplinary competence.
The following style rules for formal aspects of linguistics papers were formulated in
the same spirit. Linguistics papers have been converging in their text-structure style over
the last 20 years anyway, and while there are still a number of things that are sometimes
done differently, none of the following rules will be particularly controversial. In most
cases, the rules reflect majority usage, and none of the rules represents an innovation.
Where they do not appear to reflect majority usage, they are always simpler than the
majority usage (e.g. eliminating poorly motivated exceptions to general rules). Text-
structure style for scientific papers should primarily be practical and can often leave aside
purely aesthetic considerations.
The present style rules focus on special conventions for linguistics-specific aspects
like numbered example sentences and the representation of expressions from other
languages, but also provide guidance for many other aspects of text-structure style which
should be uniform across a paper (or an edited volume), and probably also across the
papers of a journal. The rules do not say anything about more specific notational
conventions that are relevant only to certain subcommunities of linguists, e.g. for
syntactic tree representation, transcription of spoken dialogue, optimality-theoretic
tableaux, and so on. (More specific style documents would be needed for each of these.)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
1
https://linguistlist.org/pubs/journals/	  
2
http://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/resources/glossing-rules.php
	  
 2	  
Nothing is said here about typographic features such as font type, font size,
indentation and line spacing, let alone about margin and paper size. Traditional journal
style sheets often specify these features as well, but such text-design features are aspects
of typesetting, not of text structure. There is also nothing here about (“editorial style“)
matters such as English spelling (e.g. hyphenation), comma use, generic pronoun use or
date format, as these are issues that are not specific to linguistics and rarely present
problems in editing linguistics papers. The present rules are also different from journal
style sheets in that they do not give instructions for submitting a paper for typesetting, but
concern the form of a paper as it should look to the reader. The reason for this is that
while submission rules will continue to depend on diverse typesetting technologies, there
is no reason why linguists should not agree on the way certain formal aspects of their
papers should appear to the reader (i.e. on text-structure style).
Occasionally the rules below make reference to some other prominent stylesheets,
especially those of the journals Journal of Linguistics (Cambridge), Language (LSA),
Linguistic Inquiry (MIT Press), and the ”Stylesheet for De Gruyter Mouton journals”.3
There is no systematic comparison, but some cross-references seem useful to make
readers aware of certain salient differences between styles.
The Generic Style Rules may be occasionally updated in the future. Readers are
invited to send comments to Martin Haspelmath (haspelmath@eva.mpg.de). They are
published with a CC-BY licence, so anyone is free to put them on their website.
1. Parts of the text
The text of an article begins with the title, followed by the name of the author and the
affiliation. When there are multiple authors, each author name is followed immediately
by the author’s affiliation.
Articles are preceded by an abstract of 100–300 words. About five keywords are
given.
Articles are subdivided into numbered sections (and possibly subsections), each of
which has a heading. The numbering always begins with 1 (Section 1: 1.1, 1.2, Section 2:
2.1, 2.2, etc.), so that 0 never occurs in section numbering.
More than three levels of subsections should only be used in special circumstances. If
this cannot be avoided, unnumbered subsection headings are possible.
The last numbered section may be followed by several optional sections (Sources,
Acknowledgements, Abbreviations, in this order), and by one or more sections called
Appendix (A, B, etc.).
The last part is the alphabetic list of bibliographical references (References). For the
style of references, see §12 below.
If a (sub-)section has (sub-)subsections, there must be minimally two of them, and
they must be exhaustive. This means that all text in a chapter must belong to some
section, all text within a section must belong to some subsection, and so on. A short
introductory paragraph is allowed by way of exception.
Section headings do not end with a period, and have no special capitalization (see §2).
For the parts of monographs and edited volumes, see §17 below.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
3
 Journal of Linguistics:
 http://assets.cambridge.org/LIN/LIN_ifc.pdf
Language:
 http://www.linguisticsociety.org/lsa-publications/language
Linguistic Inquiry:
 http://www.mitpressjournals.org/userimages/ContentEditor/1377619488121/
LI_Style_Sheet_8.20.13.pdf
De Gruyter Mouton:
 http://www.degruyter.com/staticfiles/pdfs/mouton_journal_stylesheet.pdf
	  
 3	  
2. Capitalization
Sentences, proper names and titles/headings/captions start with a capital letter, but there
is no special capitalization (“title case”) within English titles/headings neither in the
article title nor in section headings or figure captions.4 Book titles in the references do not
have special capitalization either, regardless of the usage in the original publication (but
English journal titles and series titles do, as these are treated as proper names). Thus, we
have:
1.1 Overview of the issues
(NOT: Overview of the Issues)
Figure 3. A schematic representation of the workflow
(NOT: A Schematic Representation of the Workflow)
Anderson, Gregory. 2006. Auxiliary verb constructions. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(NOT: Auxiliary Verb Constructions)
Capitalization is used only for parts of the article (chapters, figures, tables, appendixes)
when they are numbered,5 e.g.
as shown in Table 5
more details are given in Chapter 3
this is illustrated in Figure 17
Capitalization is also used after the colon in titles, i.e. for the beginning of subtitles:
Clyne, Michael (ed.). 1991. Pluricentric languages: Different norms in different nations. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
3. Italics
Italics are used in the following cases:6
• For all object-language forms (letters, words, phrases, sentences) that are cited within
the text or in numbered examples (see §10), unless they are phonetic transcriptions
or phonological representations in IPA.
• For book titles, journal titles, and film titles.
• When a technical term is referred to metalinguistically (in such contexts, English
technical terms are thus treated like object-language forms), e.g.
the term quotative is not appropriate here
I call this construction quotative.
• For emphasis of a particular word that is not a technical term, e.g.
This is possible here, but only here.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
4
 Note that the title of the present document has special capitalization because the Generic Style Rules
for Linguistics is a name.
5
 Note that the character § is used instead of Section, see §13 below.
6
 Italics are not used for commonly used loanwords such as ad hoc, façon de parler, e.g., et al., Sprachbund.
	  
	  
 4	  
• For emphasis within a quotation, with the indication [emphasis mine] at the end of
the quotation.
4. Small caps
Small caps are used to draw attention to an important term at its first use or definition,7
e.g.
On this basis, the two main alignment types, namely NOMINATIVE-ACCUSATIVE and ERGATIVE-
ABSOLUTIVE, are distinguished.
Small caps are also used for category abbreviations in interlinear glossing (see §8, §10),
and they may be used to indicate stress or focusing in example sentences:
(1) John called Mary a Republican and then SHE insulted HIM.
5. Boldface and other highlighting
Boldface can be used to draw the reader’s attention to particular aspects of a linguistic
example, whether given within the text or as a numbered example. An example is the
relative pronoun dem in (4) in §10 below.
Full caps and underlining are not normally used for highlighting. Exceptionally,
underlining may be used to highlight a single letter in an example word, and in other
cases where other kinds of highlighting would not work.
6. Quotation marks
Double quotation marks are used for distancing, in particular in the following situations:
• When a passage from another work is cited in the text, e.g.8
According to Takahashi (2009: 33), “quotatives were never used in subordinate clauses in
Old Japanese”.
• When a technical term or other expression is mentioned that the author does not want
to adopt,9 e.g.
This is sometimes called “pseudo-conservatism”, but I will not use this term here, as it could lead to
confusion.
Single quotation marks are used exclusively for linguistic meanings,10 e.g.
Latin habere ‘have’ is not cognate with Old English hafian ‘have’.
Quotes within quotes are not treated in a special way.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
7
This is in line with the Language stylesheet. The De Gruyter stylesheet requires italics for this purpose.
8
 But note that block quotations do marks.	  
not have quotation9	 Alternatively, italics could be used here, cf. §3.
10
The distinction between single and double quotation marks is not made by Language and Journal of
Linguistics, but is very useful and is practiced widely (e.g. required by the Linguistic Inquiry and De Gruyter
Mouton stylesheets).
	  
 5	  
Note that quotations from other languages should be translated (inline if they are short,
in a footnote if they are longer).
7. Other punctuation matters
The n-dash (–) surrounded by spaces is used for parenthetical remarks – as in this
example – rather than the m-dash (—). The n-dash is also used for number ranges, but not
surrounded by spaces (e.g. 1995–1997).
Ellipsis in a quotation is indicated by [...].
Angle brackets are used for specific reference to written symbols, e.g. the letter <q>.
8. Abbreviations
Abbreviations of uncommon expressions should be avoided in the text. Language names
should not normally be abbreviated.
The use of abbreviations is desirable for grammatical category labels in interlinear
morpheme-by-morpheme translations. (The Leipzig Glossing Rules include a standard
list of frequently used and widely understood category label abbreviations.)
When a complex term that is not widely known is referred to frequently, it may be
abbreviated (e.g. DOC for “double-object construction”). The abbreviation should be
given both in the text when it is first used and at the end of the article in the
Abbreviations section.
Abbreviations of uncommon expressions are not used in headings or captions, and
they should be avoided at the beginning of a chapter or major section.
9. In-text citations
Published works can be cited by including the author-year name of the work as an
element in the primary text (as in the first example below), or by backgrounding it in
parentheses (as in the second example below).
Thomason & Kaufman (1988: 276–280) point out that the northern dialects of English show
more morphological innovations (and are morphologically more simple) than the southern
English dialects.
The notation we use to represent this is borrowed from theories according to which φ-
features occur in a so-called feature geometry (Gazdar & Pullum 1982).
The full bibliographical references corresponding to all citations are listed alphabetically
at the end of the work. The author-year name consists of the author’s surname and the
publication year (with no comma between them),11 followed by page numbers. The page
numbers may only be omitted if the citation concerns the entire work. In primary
citations, the year (plus page numbers) is enclosed in parentheses, while in backgrounded
citations, the parentheses can be omitted.12
The page numbers follow the year after a colon and a space, and they are given with
complete numbers (no digits dropped).
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
11
Using a comma between author and year is widespread in other disciplines, but in linguistics it seems to be
mostly confined to the Elsevier journals.
12
In line with majority usage, no special distinction is made here between the author and the published work
(contrasting with the Language and Linguistic Inquiry stylesheets).
	  
 6	  
When there are two authors, the ampersand & (rather than and) is used, and when
there are more than two authors, the most normal author-year name includes only the first
surname plus et al. (though the full list of authors may be given if this helps the reader).13
Sperber & Wilson (1986)
Bannard et al. (2009)
= Bannard, Lieven & Tomasello (2009)
When multiple citations are listed in parentheses, they are separated by semicolons,14 and
they are normally listed in chronological order.
Speakers rely heavily on formulaic chunks or “prefabs” during speech comprehension and
production (Pawley & Syder 1983; Sinclair 1991; Erman & Warren 2000; Bybee 2006; see Wray
2002 for a broader historical review).
When multiple works by the same author are cited, the author name need not be repeated,
and the years are separated by semicolons.
While Hawkins (2004; 2014) has argued for a Minimize Domain principle of language performance,
other authors have tried to explain the observed effects in purely grammatical terms.
Previous empirical studies report that object fronting in these languages occurs under the same
contextual conditions for canonical transitive verbs and experiencer-object verbs (see Verhoeven
(2008b; 2010a) for Turkish and Chinese).
Instead of page numbers, chapter numbers or section numbers may be given (e.g. Auer
2007: Chapter 7, Matras 2009: §6.2.2).
10. Numbered examples
A hallmark of many linguistics articles is the use of numbered examples. Unless they are
from English (or more generally, the language of the article), they must be glossed and
translated. Glossing refers to the use of interlinear word-by-word or morpheme-by-
morpheme translations, as described in detail in the Leipzig Glossing Rules.
Example numbers are enclosed in parentheses. When there are multiple examples
(“sub-examples”) under a single number, they are distinguished by the letters a, b, etc.
The text of numbered examples is normally in italics, just like the text of in-line examples
(§3).
(2)a.b.She saw him.
He saw her.
But when a numbered example is not glossed and translated (i.e. in English works, when
it is from English), it may be in roman (non-italic) type. Thus, (2a-b) could alternatively
be printed in roman.
Cross-references to examples use numbers in parentheses as well,15 but when a cross-
reference occurs inside parentheses, the parentheses around the numbers can be omitted:
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
13
Language now uses and colleagues rather than et al. (when the author rather the the work is referred to), but
the latter is extremely widespread across the disciplines, so it is better to keep it. (It derives from Latin et alii
‘and others’.)
14
Linguistics publications frequently use a comma in such listings, but the semicolon is much more frequent
in other disciplines, so it is adopted here.
	  
 7	  
As shown in (6) and (8-11), this generalization extends to transitive constructions, but (29b) below
constitutes an exception.
In all other environments, the stress is on the second syllable (see 15a-d).
When an example is from a language other than the language of the main text, it is
provided with an interlinear gloss (with word-by-word alignment) in the second line, as
well as with an idiomatic translation in the third line, e.g.
(3) Storm-ur-inn
 rak
 bát-inn
 á land.
storm-NOM-DEF
 drove boat.ACC-DEF on land
‘The storm drove the boat ashore.’
(Icelandic)
The precise conventions for interlinear glossing are given in the Leipzig Glossing Rules,
which have become a worldwide standard. The most important principle is that each
element of the primary text corresponds to an element in the gloss line, and boundary
symbols (especially the word-internal boundary symbol - and the clitic boundary symbol
=) have to be present both in the primary text and in the gloss. Abbreviated category
labels are set in small capitals, and the idiomatic translation is surrounded by single
quotes. A list of abbreviations is provided at the end of the article (or at the beginning of
a monograph).
Example sentences usually have normal capitalization at the beginning and normal
punctuation (usually a period) at the end. The gloss line has no capitalization and no
punctuation. The idiomatic translation again has normal capitalization and punctuation, as
seen in (3) above. When the example is not a complete sentence, as in (4), there is no
capitalization and no punctuation.
(4) das Kind,
 dem
 du
 geholfen hast
the child.NOM who.DAT you.NOM helped
 have
‘the child that you helped’
(German)
When the language is not normally used as a written language, the primary text may lack
initial capitalization and normal punctuation, e.g.
(5) Hatam
a-yai
 bi-dani mem di-ngat i
2SG-get to-me for
 1SG-see Q
‘Would you give it to me so that I can see it?’ (Reesink 1999: 69)
When multiple languages are mentioned in a single text, the name of the language may be
given to the right of the example (as in 3-4), or in the line next to the example number, as
in (5) and (6a-b).
(6) Sakha
a. En bytaan buol-uoq-uŋ
you slow
 be-FUT-2SG
‘You will be slow.’ (Baker 2012: 7)
b.*En bytaan-yaq-yŋ
you slow-FUT-2SG
(‘You will be slow.’) (Baker 2012: 7)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
15
This is the most widespread practice, although the Language stylesheet omits the parentheses in cross-
references.
	  
 8	  
Ungrammatical examples can be given a parenthesized idiomatic translation, as in (6b). A
literal translation may be given in parentheses after the idiomatic translation, e.g.
(7) Japanese
Tsukue no ue ni hon ga aru.
table
 GEN top at book SUBJ be
‘There is a book on the table.’ (Lit. ‘At the top of the table is a book.’)
The object-language text may be given in two lines, one unanalyzed (“surface“) line, and
an analyzed line (in roman type), which may contain a more abstract representation, e.g.
(8) Karbi
amatlo
 la kroikrelo
amāt=lo
 là krōi-Cē-lò
and.then=FOC this agree-NEG-RL
‘And then, she disagreed.’ (Konnerth 2014: 286)
Square brackets (e.g. to indicate constituents) are never set in italics, even when the
text is in italics.
11. Source indications
Sources of numbered examples are standardly given directly after the idiomatic
translation, as in the following examples (see also (5-6) and (8) above):
(9) Luganda
Maama a-wa-dde
 taata
 ssente.
Mother she.PRS-give-PRF father money
‘Mother has given father money.’ (Ssekiryango 2006: 67)
(10) Jalonke
I
 sig-aa
 xon-ee
 ma.
2SG go-IPFV stranger-DEF at
‘You are going to the stranger.’ [Mburee 097]
When the source is not a bibliographical reference, but is the name of a text or corpus
(perhaps unpublished), as in (10), the source is given in square brackets and the article
must contain a special section at the end where more information about the sources is
given. (When the source indication is unique and quite long, it may of course
alternatively be given in a footnote, e.g. when it is a long URL.)
12. Tables and figures
Tables and figures are numbered consecutively (Table 1, Table 2; Figure 1, Figure 2,
etc.). They must be mentioned in the running text and identified by their numbers. They
appear in the text as close as possible to the place where they are mentioned.
Each table and each figure has a caption. The caption precedes a table and follows a
figure. If it is not a complete sentence, it is not followed by a period.
Tables generally have a top line and a bottom line plus a line below the column
headers, e.g.
	  
 9	  
Table 3: Frequency of some English nouns (BNC)
SG
 PL
 % OF SG
person
 24671
 persons
 4034
 86%
house
 49295
 houses
 9840
 83%
hare
 488
 hares
 136
 78%
bear
 1182
 bears
 611
 65%
feather 487
 feathers
 810
 38%
Footnotes within a table use the footnote reference characters a, b, c and are given
immediately below the table (not at the bottom of the page).
13. Cross-references in the text
Cross-references to chapters, tables, figures or footnotes use the capitalized names for
these items (e.g. Chapter 4, Figure 3, Table 2, Footnote 17). Abbreviations like “Fig. 3”,
“Ch. 4”, or “n. 17” are not used.
Cross-references to sections use the § character (e.g. §2.3).
14. Footnotes
The footnote reference number normally follows a period or a comma, though
exceptionally it may follow an individual word.
Footnote numbers start with 1. The acknowledgements are printed as a separate
section following the body of the text, not as a footnote. Likewise, abbreviations and
other notational conventions are given in a separate section (following the
acknowledgements, see §1 above).
Numbered examples in footnotes have the numbers (i), (ii), etc. If there are sub-
examples, they have the numbers (i.a), (i.b), etc.
15. Non-Latin scripts
All forms in languages that are not normally written with the Latin alphabet (such as
Japanese or Armenian) should (additionally) be given in transcription or transliteration.
When the article is entirely about a particular language, the original script should not
be omitted, at least in numbered examples.
Non-Latin forms need not be printed in italics.
16. List of references
The list of references at the end of an article has the heading References (or Bibliography
at the end of a monograph). The entries are listed alphabetically.
16.1. General points
For the formatting, the Generic Style Rules follow the 2007 Unified Style Sheet for
Linguistics in almost all respects. Four very minor differences (which simplify the rules
by removing exceptions) are noted in footnotes 18-21 below.16 While the Unified Style
Sheet limits itself to examples, the rules are spelled out here.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
16
The strongest justification for simple rules is that the references should be automatically parsable (e.g.
by Google Scholar), and correct and complete author names should be extractable. In the modern age,
this is crucial for scientometric and hence career-building purposes.
	  
 10	  
It should be noted especially that
• the names of authors and editors should be given in their full form as in the
publication, without truncation of given names (but note that some authors habitually
use initials only, e.g. J. K. Rowling and R. M. W. Dixon; these count as full)
• page numbers are obligatory, but issue numbers of journals and series titles are
optional (though recommended)
• journal titles are not abbreviated
• main title and subtitle are separated by a colon, not by a period.
16.2. Standard parts and standard reference types
A reference consists of the standard parts given in Table 1 (some of them are optional):
author list, year, article title, editor list, publication title, volume number, issue number,
series, page numbers, city, publisher. Nonstandard parts may follow in parentheses.
There are four standard reference types: journal article, book, article in edited book,
thesis. Works that do not fit easily into these types should be assimilated to them to the
extent that this is possible. Different reference types make use of different parts, as shown
in Table 1.
Table 1: Standard parts of bibliographical references
author
 year.
 article
 editor
 publica
 volume
 page
 city:
 pub-
list.
 title.
 list.
 -tion
 number
 num
 lisher.
title(.)
 -bers.
journal
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
article
book
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
article
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
in edited
book
thesis
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
16.3. General formatting rules
• Article titles are printed in roman, with no quotation marks around them.
• Publication titles (both book titles and journal titles) are printed in italics.
• Editors are followed by (ed.) or (eds.) (depending on the number of editors).
• The author list, the year number, the article title, the editor list, the volume number,
the page numbers, and the publisher are followed by a period (as seen in the
headings of Table 1).
• The city is followed by a colon.
• Additional nonstandard parts may follow the reference in parentheses.
16.4. Standard reference types
Here are examples of the four standard types of references: journal article, book, article in
edited volume, and thesis:
• Journal article (journal title is immediately followed by the journal volume number):
Milewski, Tadeusz. 1951. The conception of the word in languages of North American natives.
Lingua Posnaniensis 3. 248–268.
	  
 11	  
• Book (whether authored or edited, book title followed by a period):
Matthews, Peter. 1974. Morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lightfoot, David W. (ed.). 2002. Syntactic effects of morphological change. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
• Article in edited volume (editor list is preceded by In and followed by (ed.) or (eds.)
and a comma, book title is followed by a comma):17
Erdal, Marcel. 2007. Group inflexion, morphological ellipsis, affix suspension, clitic sharing. In
Fernandez-Vest, M. M. Jocelyne (ed.), Combat pour les langues du monde: Hommage à
Claude Hagège, 177–189. Paris: L’Harmattan.
• Thesis (university is treated as publisher, type of thesis/dissertation is mentioned in
parentheses as a nonstandard part):18
Yu, Alan C. L. 2003. The morphology and phonology of infixation. Berkeley: University of
California. (Doctoral dissertation.)
Other kinds of publications should be treated like one of these to the extent that this is
possible. For example, published conference papers can be treated like articles in edited
volumes or like journal articles. Unpublished papers can be treated like journal articles,
with information about the location given as a nonstandard part.
In unpublished conference papers, the conference is treated as a nonstandard part in
parentheses (but such unpublished papers should only be cited from recent conferences, if
it can be expected that the material will eventually be published):
Filppula, Markku. 2013. Areal and typological distributions of features as evidence for
language contacts in Western Europe. (Paper presented at the conference of the Societas
Linguistica Europaea, Split, 18–21 September 2013.)
16.5. Optional parts
Optionally, the journal volume number may be followed by an issue number, given in
parentheses:
Coseriu, Eugenio. 1964. Pour une sémantique diachronique structurale. Travaux de
linguistique et de littérature 2(1). 139–186.
The book title may be followed by series information (series title plus series number),
given in parentheses:
Lahiri, Aditi (ed.). 2000. Analogy, leveling, markedness: Principles of change in phonology
and morphology (Trends in Linguistics 127). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
17
The complete information about the volume is always included, even if other articles from the same volume
are listed in the references. There is no need to list the volume itself separately, unless it is cited separately.
(This means that more space is needed, but it is otherwise much simpler than the old paper-saving
convention of making some references sensitive to the existrence of other references in the list).
18
The 2007 Unified Style Sheet has the university and the dissertation-type information as a single part, even
though they are quite different types of information (“Berkeley: University of California dissertation”).
	  
 12	  
Series titles have special capitalization, like journal titles (see §2).
16.6. Author surnames and given names
The author names always appear in the order “surname, given name” in the list of
references,19 in order to make it unambiguously clear which elements of the author name
belong to the surname and which belong to the given name. If the second name in the
following example were given in the order “given name surname” (Francisco José Ruiz
de Mendoza), the parsing would not be clear.
Pérez Hernández, Lorena & Ruiz de Mendoza, Francisco José. 2002. Grounding, semantic
motivation, and conceptual interaction in indirect directive speech acts. Journal of
Pragmatics 34(3). 259–284.
When there are more than two authors (or editors), each pair of names is separated by an
ampersand.20 No author name is omitted, i.e. et al. is not used in references.
Chelliah, Shobhana & de Reuse, Willem. 2010. Handbook of descriptive linguistic fieldwork.
Dordrecht: Springer.
Johnson, Kyle & Baker, Mark & Roberts, Ian. 1989. Passive arguments raised. Linguistic
Inquiry 20. 219–251.
Surnames with internal complexity are never treated in a special way.21 Thus, Dutch or
German surnames that begin with van or von (e.g. van Riemsdijk) or French and Dutch
surnames that begin with with de (e.g. de Groot) are treated just like Belgian surnames
(e.g. De Schutter) and Italian surnames (e.g. Da Milano) and are alphabetized under the
first part, even though they begin with a lower-case letter. Thus, the following names are
sorted alphabetically (i.e. mechanically) as indicated.
Da Milano, Federica > de Groot, Casper > De Schutter, Georges > de Saussure, Ferdinand > van
der Auwera, Johan > Van Langendonck, Willy > van Riemsdijk, Henk > von Humboldt, Wilhelm
When they occur in the prose text, they are not treated in a special way either, i.e. they
have lower case unless they occur at the begining of a sentence (this is in line with the
French and German practice,22 but in contrast to the Dutch practice), e.g.
as has been claimed by van Riemsdijk & Williams (1981)
Chinese and Korean names may be treated in a special way: As the surnames are often
not very distinctive, the full name may be given in the in-text citation, e.g.
the neutral negation bù is compatible with stative and activity verbs (cf. Teng Shou-hsin 1973; Hsieh
Miao-Ling 2001; Lin Jo-wang 2003)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		  
19
This is a simplification over the 2007 Unified Style Sheet, which treats non-first names in author and
editor lists in a special way, with inverted order.
20
This is a simplification over the 2007 Unified Style Sheet, which treats the last pair of names differently
from the non-last pairs.
21
This is a simplification over the 2007 Unified Style Sheet, which treats “names with von, van, de, etc.” in a
special way.
22
With classical authors such as de Saussure and von Humboldt, the first part of the name can be (and is often)
omitted. But this is not possible with modern names (e.g. von Heusinger, never *Heusinger).
	  
 13	  
16.7. Internet publications
Regular publications that are available online are not treated in a special way, as this
applies to more and more publications anyway.
When citing a web resource that is not a regular scientific publication, this should be
treated like a book, to the extent that this is possible, e.g.
Native Languages of the Americas. 1998–2014. Vocabulary in Native American languages: Salish
words. (http://www.native-languages.org/salish_words.htm) (Accessed 2014-12-02.)
16.8. Miscellaneous
Books may include a volume number, separated from the book title by a comma:
Rissanen, Matti. 1999. Syntax. In Lass, Roger (ed.), Cambridge history of the English
language, vol. 3, 187–331. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
And there may be information about the edition, following the book title:
Croft, William. 2003. Typology and universals. 2nd edn. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
If a publisher is associated with several cities, only the first one needs to be given,
e.g. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton, or Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Other nonstandard types of information may follow the standard parts in
parentheses, e.g.
Mayerthaler, Willi. 1988. Morphological naturalness. Ann Arbor: Karoma. (Translation of
Mayerthaler 1981.)
Titles of works written in a language that readers cannot be expected to know may be
accompanied by a translation, given in brackets:
Haga, Yasushi. 1998. Nihongo no shakai shinri [Social psychology in the Japanese
language]. Tokyo: Ningen no Kagaku Sha.
Li, Rulong. 1999. Minnan fangyan de daici [Demonstrative and personal pronouns in
Southern Min]. In Li, Rulong & Chang, Song-Hing (eds). Daici [Demonstrative and
personal pronouns], 263–287. Guangzhou: Ji’nan University Press.
If the title is not only in a different language, but also in a different script, it may be given
in the original script, in addition to the transliteration (following it in parentheses).
Likewise, the name of the author may be given in the original script, as follows:
Plungian, Vladimir A. (Плунгян, Владимир А.) 2000. Obščaja morfologija: Vvedenie v
problematiku (Общая морфология: Введение в проблематику) [General morphology:
Introduction to the issues]. Moskva: URSS.
Chen, Shu-chuan (陳淑娟). 2013. Taibei Shezi fangyan de yuyin bianyi yu bianhua (台北社子方
言的語音變異與變化) [The sound variation and change of Shezi dialect in Taipei city].
Language and Linguistics 14(2). 371–408.
	  
 14	  
17. Rules for monographs and edited volumes
17.1. Parts of books
Books (as well as dissertations and other theses) consist of the following parts (with
optional parts in parentheses): title page, colophon page, (dedication page,) contents,
(acknowledgements or preface, abbreviations or notational conventions,) chapter 1,
chapter 2, etc., appendix A, appendix B, etc., bibliography, name index, (language
index,), subject index.
Books may also group the chapters into parts (Part I, Part II, etc). A new part does not
start a new chapter numbering. Parts mainly serve to provide orientation in the table of
contents.
17.2. Monographs vs. edited volumes
Chapters of edited books are preceded by an abstract, like journal articles, but chapters of
monographs are not accompanied by an abstract.
Edited books are treated like a collection of journal articles, i.e. each article has its
own list of references and abbreviations, so that the articles can be read and understood
independently.
Chapters in edited volumes are numbered like chapters in monographs, but the chapter
number is not contained in the section number, i.e. Section 2 of Chapter 5 is §2, not §5.2.
17.3. Table of contents
The table of contents (called Contents) lists the chapters, chapter sections and subsections
(indented and preceded by their numbers) and gives the corresponding page numbers.
17.4. Cross-references
While articles (including articles in edited volumes) refer only to sections within the same
article, monographs may refer to chapters and sections within the same book, and to
sections within the same chapter. Note that when referring to parts of a book, §2.3 means
§3 of Chapter 2.
17.5. Numbering tables and figures
In monographs, the numbers of tables and figures are preceded by the chapter number.
Thus, the second table in Chapter 3 is Table 3.2. (However, examples normally start with
(1) in each new chapter.)
This rule does not apply to chapters in edited volumes, as the chapter numbers are not
salient here.
17.6. Bibliographical references
When a self-standing chapter in an edited book contains a reference to another chapter in
the same book, the referred-to chapter is listed in the references in the normal way, as if it
were published in a different place. However, the in-text citation may contain the
additional comment (in this volume) in parentheses, e.g.
As explained by Li & Kim (2015) (in this volume), it is often useful to...
